- ## What I learned today about Google Cloud External TCP/UDP network load balancer?
  tags:: TIL, Google Cloud
	- Google Cloud External TCP/UDP network load balancer is **built on [Maglev](https://research.google/pubs/pub44824/)** and can **load balance traffic based on incoming IP protocol data**, including address, protocol, and port (optional). These load balancers are **regional** and non-proxied, meaning it **pass-through connections from clients**.
	- The **type of traffic supported varies** depending on whether it is [backend service-based](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/network/networklb-backend-service) (TCP, UDP, ESP, GRE, ICMP, and ICMPv6) or [target pool-based](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/network/networklb-target-pools) (only TCP or UDP) load balancer.
	- References
		- https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/load-balancing-overview#external-tcp-udp-network-load-balancing
- ## [[Why communication in remote teams can be difficult?]]
  id:: 64390da9-135d-4680-bb4c-32594f910055
	- **Working remotely** has become a norm for many teams, especially when team members are located in different time zones. While this certainly has its advantages, it can also pose a few challenges. One of the biggest hurdles is communication - **it can be difficult for team members to stay connected with each other**, which can lead to feelings of isolation and disconnection from each other. Another challenge that remote teams face is that **team members may have different responsibilities, deadlines, and priorities**. This can make it challenging to stay on the same page and ensure that everyone is working towards the same goals.
- ## [[What questions to answer for each issue when working remotely?]]
	- When everyone is working remotely, especially in different time zones, **[communication can be difficult](((64390da9-135d-4680-bb4c-32594f910055)))**. To overcome these challenges and ensure that everyone stays on track, it's essential to have a four key questions be answered for each issue: **What needs to be done**, **Why is it important**, **Who is responsible**, and **When is it due**. Answering these questions helps remote teams stay organized and work together more effectively. It also ensures that **everyone is working towards the same goal**.
- ## [[Why a clear process is crucial for remote teams?]]
	- A well-defined process enables team members to work together more effectively and efficiently, ensuring that everyone is working towards the same goals.