- DONE **[The layering method with Terraform](https://medium.com/@david.alvares.62/the-layering-method-with-terraform-d06e1e851a34)**
  author:: [[David Alvares]]
  tags:: [[Article]], [[Terraform]]
  id:: 643ee58f-d0b1-45d5-9b46-2b7f711b4c71
	- Having all Terraform code in a single directory restricts the number of people who can work on infrastructure changes simultaneously to just one, regardless of the team's size. This creates a bottleneck and slows down the team's ability to deliver.
		- Locking the state during the execution of a `plan`, `apply`, or `console` command can cause delays and a queue for team members to make changes, as it prevents other developers from making changes simultaneously.
		- If the lock of the first developer was lifted just before the command of the second developer was executed, but the changes made by the first developer have not yet been pulled by the second developer, then when the second developer executes an `apply` command, it will simply remove the changes made by the first developer.
	- Terraform offers a few workarounds to address these problems:
		- The workspaces allows multiple developers to work on the same code but on different states. However, it can result in increased costs to reproduce all infrastructure.
		- The `-lock=false` flag allows retrieving state without locking to others. However, it is not without risk, especially during `apply` operations. It is recommended to use it only for the plan and to authorize apply only on the CI.
		- The `-refresh=false` flag in Terraform prevents the state from being updated with the current state of the infrastructure during `plan` or `apply` , which can speed up plan execution by not making API calls to the cloud provider. However, this can also result in discrepancies between the state and the actual state of the infrastructure.
		- The `-target = resource` flag can speed up operations on large infrastructure code by limiting the operation to a specific resource and its dependencies, reducing the size of the graph. However, caution should be exercised when using this flag as it is not recommended for normal workflows.
	- Layering infrastructure code helps us solve a lot of these problems.
		- The principle is based on dividing the infrastructure into logical layers and representing these layers in the form of separate directories. The deployment of an infrastructure will therefore no longer be done by running Terraform in a single directory, but in as many directories as there are layers.
		- Implementing layering would amount to setting up the following tree structure:
		  ```
		  ├── 10-foundation
		  │   ├── README.md
		  │   ├── iam.tf
		  │   ├── main.tf
		  │   ├── network.tf
		  │   ├── outputs.tf
		  │   └── variables.tf
		  ├── 20-compute
		  │   ├── README.md
		  │   ├── main.tf
		  │   ├── outputs.tf
		  │   └── variables.tf
		  ├── 30-database
		  │   ├── README.md
		  │   ├── main.tf
		  │   ├── outputs.tf
		  │   └── variables.tf
		  └── 90-monitoring
		      ├── README.md
		      ├── main.tf
		      ├── outputs.tf
		      └── variables.tf
		  ```
		- The use of directory numbering allows for easy understanding of the order in which layers are executed. Incrementing by 10 instead of 1 enables the insertion of new layers between existing ones if necessary.
		- The upper layers can rely on lower layers, such as compute instances needing a subnet to launch into. To reference resources created by the previous layer you can use **naming conventions and [data sources](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/data-sources)**, or use the **[terraform_remote_state](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/remote-state-data)** data source to retrieve output values from a upper layer  Terraform configuration.
	- The gains and constraints of layering
		- Making two modifications on the same layer can still have limitations, but organizing infrastructure into different layers allows for parallelization of work.
			- This means that different people can work on different layers simultaneously, such as one person working on the network part (to make it multi-region), another working on the compute part (to set up an auto scaling group), and another on the database (to set up replica).
			- It is possible to cut the layers even further by separating each group of machines, each network, each storage object to further limit the risk of collisions when several people work in the same repo.
			- The limited number of resources in each layer also allows for a shorter plan and apply command execution time than if the entire infrastructure were managed in a single layer.
		- However, this organization of the code has its drawbacks. Running the code will take a bit more work as you will need to run Terraform commands in each directory instead of just one with monolithic code.
			- Two ways to approach this problem
				- Manage the deployment logic in the CI / CD tool (Gitlab, Jenkins, etc …) by adding a deployment step for each layer.
				- Create a tool (a shell script for example) which will go through the tree structure on its own and execute the commands successively. The script becomes the entry point to deploy all the infra.
			- Both methods have their advantages and disadvantages
				- The first method will give you clear visibility in the CI / CD of the execution status of each layer, but may make your pipeline configuration code heavier or more difficult to maintain depending on the level of templating possible in your tool.
				- The second will keep a single deployment step for all the infra, but it will be necessary to maintain this script and browse the logs to have visibility of the result of the plan for each layer.
				- The true is that in both methods you need something that take care for the order - CI config, or script.
		- Some modifications in the infra may require modifications in several layers
			- If we want to improve the availability of our solution for example, we could add a subnet in a new availability zone, and spread our instances in this new subnet. This modification requires modification in the 10-network layer and in the 20-compute layer.
			- Yes but there you go, if we make these two changes at the same time and submit our patch to our CI tool, the plan step executed in layer 20-compute will fail when trying to resolve the datasource for the new subnet because it does not yet exist, the application in the 10-network layer has not yet been applied!
			- This modification must therefore be carried out in two stages:
				- Add the new subnet to the infra and deploy the change to production.
				- Add the new subnet in the 20-compute layer.
			- This operation is certainly restrictive, but it is also in line with popular principles of software development: making small changes deployed frequently to production in order to limit the impact of each deployment. This principle also applies to infrastructure!
			- Depending on the point of view, this last impact can be perceived as an advantage or a disadvantage depending on the practices and the maturity of your team.
	- Advantages and disadvantages of layering code:
		- **Advantages** of layering infrastructure code include the ability to store resources of each layer in a dedicated tfstate, parallel work of multiple developers on the same infrastructure, optimized execution time for `plan` and `apply` commands in each layer, and a forced iterative approach to infrastructure changes.
		- **Disadvantages** include the increased weak coupling of Terraform code and the need to use data sources, and complex scheduling in the CI/CD tool.
	- For a small project with little or no change in infrastructure, monolithic code will do just fine, as you probably won’t have to make many changes to the infrastructure at the same time. But on a large project requiring several parts of the infrastructure to evolve in parallel (network, monitoring, etc.), the layering will quickly be an asset for the team in charge of the infrastructure.
		- Monolithic code is suitable for small projects with minimal changes to infrastructure. However, for large projects that require multiple parts of the infrastructure to evolve simultaneously, a layered approach will be beneficial for the team managing the infrastructure.
	- The layering method with Terraform is a useful code organization for large projects involving multiple parts of the infrastructure, as it makes changes easier to manage. It may be too costly to set up for small projects, however, so monolithic code may be more suitable. If in doubt, it's best to use layering. Switching from monolithic code to layering later on will be more difficult, so it's best to plan ahead.
